# Individual Capstone Assessment

**Benjamin Elfner**

Our project is about exploring how an AI could learn to play a game of tag. The focus is on how common machine learning practices such as neural networks and adversarial networks can be tailored to fit this problem. Other tools I have learned from school can also be applied such as optimization and modeling. The biggest problem will be trying to determine how this game can be modeled such that there are inputs and outputs for the AI to control. These inputs and outputs must be useful enough for the AI to perform its task successfully. Once the AI can play against itself, there will also be the opportunity to determine how a person will perform against it.

Using the knowledge from Python Programming (CS 2021) our project will be primarily written in Python. Python is a very flexible language which will be useful as our project evolves as well as providing ease of implementing our ideas. Using knowledge from Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071), I will be able to create optimized routines for training the AI and for the design of the game itself. I will be able to navigate Microsoft Azure or AWS so we can train the AI using their tools faster than if we did so on our personal computers using knowledge from Cloud Computing (CS 5165). I will use the techniques from Software Engineering (EECE 3093C) such as the UML diagrams to guide our projects development structure and organization. All written documents will be influenced by the things I learned in Technical Writing (ENGL 4092) such as organization and presentation.

The co-op role that will guide my experiences the most is my job at Kinetic Vision as a machine learning developer. At Kinetic Vision all my programming work was in Python making it my strongest language by far. Also, at Kinetic Vision I was exposed to many new types of machine learning implementations. Not only will I be able to draw inspiration from them for this project, but I also know where to go on the internet for resources on machine learning. I also used Microsoft Azure to train AI models at Kinetic Vision giving me the information necessary to start on that aspect of this project. Two of my other co-op experiences, Sphaeric.ai and Simple Maps (Python-dev at both), will provide me with a more solid foundation in Python.

I have always been fascinated by applying AI models to novel situations and I believe a game of tag is a good candidate since it provides a new environment in which two different AI will compete. It also lends to easy scaling of complexity which can be done by adding or removing restrictions to the AIs or the environment. First, the environment needs to be implemented and tweaked so that both the seekers and the evader are competitive with each other with no clear advantage. Next, the AIs will need to be built and trained on the environment. This will include any tuning of the AIs necessary for training to complete successfully. This stage will be the primary focus of the project since training AI can be a very complex and time-consuming task.

The expected results of this project are a game of tag and two AI that control the seekers and evader. The AI will be proficient in their respective tasks with the threshold of proficiency to be determined at a later date. Their proficiency will be what determines if the project has succeeded or failed. The project will be done when we have followed all parts of our determined path regardless of whether the project turns out to be a success or failure. I will self-evaluate my contributions in comparison to my teammates. If I feel we have done our parts with equal or similar quality and with that quality of a grade that I would feel proud to have my name on. 